=== Page 1 ===
JC2001 | Practical Session Sheet 
Page 1 of 2 
 
JC2001 Introduction to Software Engineering 
Practical Session 1 – Group Project Exercises 
Introductions, groups, and projects 
Session Goal 
In this session, we will form groups for the course project. You will work with the other members of 
your group for the duration of this course, so you should get to know them. The best groups have a 
high level of trust, so you need to get to know each other to build that trust. In addition, we will start 
deciding which problem spaces you want to explore in your software product development project. 
You are expected to start thinking about possible group project ideas from the first day of the 
course.  
Forming Groups 
1. You need to form a group of 8, 9 or 10 members.  
2. During this first practical session, you should discuss possible group membership with other 
students. You may also continue these discussions in your own time. Once you have agreed 
who will be part of your group, each student must formally join the agreed group on 
MyAberdeen using the self-group enrolment function. The deadline for joining your agreed 
group on MyAberdeen is Monday, 14 September 2026 at 23:59 CST (China Standard Time).  
3. Once the groups have been formed, each group should nominate a group leader.  
4. An academic supervisor will be allocated to each group, and the list of academic supervisors, 
along with their email addresses, will be announced on the MyAberdeen course page. The 
group leader should then email the assigned academic supervisor to arrange a meeting. 
During this meeting, the group should discuss its proposed project idea and scope with the 
academic supervisor.  
Introductions 
1. Introduce yourselves to each other within the group and include something about what you 
are looking forward to on this course. 
2. Go around the group and answer these questions to learn a bit more about each other. The 
questions are from https://www.socards.org 
a. What are three things that would instantly cheer you up?  
b. What is your favourite dish of food, and what memories do you associate with it?  
c. If you were to give a tour of your hometown, what would be the highlights?  
d. If you could witness one key moment of history, what would you choose?  
e. Where do you go and what do you do when you need to restore your energy? 
Deciding on the Project Topics 
In your groups, look over the project ideas and discuss what you would like to explore for your 
software product development project. 
1. Think about WHAT the project will be. 
2. Think about WHO the project will be for. 
3. Consider any major requirements and constraints of your project. 


=== Page 2 ===
JC2001 | Practical Session Sheet 
Page 2 of 2 
 
4. Start building the vision for your project. 
Important Deadlines for September 2026 
Group Formation: Monday, 14 September 2026 at 23:59 CST (China Standard Time) – each student 
must have formally joined their agreed group on MyAberdeen.  
Project Proposal: Friday, 25 September 2026 at 23:59 CST (China Standard Time) – submit your 
project proposal on MyAberdeen.  
Note: The deadlines listed above are reminders for the September 2026 deadlines only. For further 
group project deadlines, including project updates, the technical report, proof-of-concept software 
submission, and the project presentation, please see the course page on MyAberdeen.  
 
 


